Exercice1:

1. For each of the following commands, identify the corresponding purpose:

usermod -L: Lock the user account
passwd -u: Unlock the user account
chage -E: Set the expiration date for the user account
groupdel: Delete the group
useradd -s: Create a new user account with a specific login shell
groupadd -g: Create a new group with a specific GID
userdel -r: Remove the user account and all files in its home directory, the home directory itself and the user’s mail spool
usermod -l: Change the login name of the user account
groupmod -n: Change the name of the group
useradd -m: Create a new user account and its home directory

2. For each of the following passwd commands, identify the corresponding chage command:
passwd -n: chage -m
passwd -x: chage -M
passwd -w: chage -W
passwd -i: chage -I
passwd -S: chage -l

b. Explain in detail the purpose of the commands in the previous question:

In Linux, you can use the passwd -n command (or chage -m) to set the minimum number 
of days between password changes, the passwd -x command (or chage -M) to set the maximum
number of days during which a password is valid, the passwd -w command (or chage -W) to set 
the number of days of warning before the password expires, the passwd -i command (or chage -I)
to set the number of days of inactivity during which the user should change the password and the 
passwd -S command (or chage -l) to show brief information about the password of the user account.

3. What commands can you use to lock a user account? And which commands to unlock it?

If you want to lock an user account, you can use one of these commands: usermod -L, usermod --lock
and passwd -l. Instead, if you want to unlock it, you can use usermod -U, usermod --unlock and passwd -u.

4. By convention, which IDs are assigned to system accounts and which to ordinary users?

System accounts usually have UIDs less than 100 or between 500 and 1000, while ordinary users have UIDs
starting at 1000 although some legacy systems may start numbering at 500. The root user has UID 0. Remember
that the UID_MIN and UID_MAX values in /etc/login.defs define the range of UIDs used for the creation of 
ordinary users. From the standpoint of LPI Linux Essentials and LPIC-1, system accounts have UIDs less than 
1000 and ordinary users have UIDs greater than 1000.

5. How do you find out if a user account, which was previously able to access the system, is now locked? Assume your system uses shadow passwords.

When shadow passwords are used, the second field in /etc/passwd contains the x character for each user account, 
because the encrypted user passwords are stored in /etc/shadow. In particular, the encrypted password of a user 
account is stored in the second field of this file and, if it starts with an exclamation mark, the account is locked.
